Simple properties (#65)
phadej/cabal-extras: cabal-docspec/MANUAL.md

:   Message to return when the evaluation is timed out.
    Default is **\* Hangs forever \***.

**\--ghci-rtsopts** *options*

:   RTS options for GHCi process

> **\--skip-properties**

Reviewer: Is `--skip-properties` effectively the same thing as `--no-simple-properties`? Perhaps it would be cleaner to just have one flag rather than two. (I'm not sure what happens if you pass both `--skip-properties` and `--simple-properties`.)

Author: Fair. In theory there could be third way to handle properties (more faithful to `doctest` e.g.) but I don't know.

Author: I'll change the flags to `--check-properties` and `--no-check-properties` with latter being the default.

:   Skip properties.

**\--simple-properties**

:   Evaluate **prop> expr x y** using **quickCheck (expr x y)**.
    Requires *QuickCheck* package in the plan.

**\--property-variables** *varlist*

> :   Variables to automatically quantify over in properties.

Reviewer: Perhaps leave out the word "automatically". After all, the whole point of this flag is that you're _manually_ specifying the variable names, rather than having them be quantified over without input (i.e., automatically).

Also, what happens if a property variable happens to shadow the name of some other thing in scope? (Imagine `--property-variables=reverse`, for example.)

Author: I don't understand the question about shadowing.

Author: This works so when you have `--property-variables=xs` a property

```haskell
-- prop> sort xs == sort (sort xs)
```

is transformed into

```
quickCheck (\ xs -> sort xs == sort (sort xs))
```

expression, which is then run.

If we have `--property=variables="xs reverse"` and do

```haskell
-- prop> xs == reverse (reverse xs)
```

it will be transformed into

```haskell
quickCheck ( \ reverse xs -> xs == reverse (reverse xs))
```

which won't even run. (`No instance for (Show (() -> ()))`)

the idea is to look for symbols in the expression and quantify over ones which are in the `--property-variables` list. (A bit like implicit generalization with `variables` in Agda). The `exprVars` parser is simplistic, but seems toe enough. (Probably good idea to not do too clever shadowing in properties anyway).

**\--strip-comments** makes them work.
Some examples are illustrating non-termination,
therefore short **\--timeout** is justified.

> Yet, it have to be long enough so terminating examples have time to run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yet, it has to be long enough so the terminating examples have time to run.
```

We also set RTS options, reducing the maximum stack to
make stack overflow exceptions occur earlier.

> Few examples are using symbols from *mtl*, *deepseq* and *bytestring* packages,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the examples below use symbols from the *mtl*, *deepseq* and *bytestring* packages,
```

QuickCheck properties
---------------------

Haddock (since version 2.13.0) has markup support for properties
cabal-docspec can verify properties with QuickCheck.

> Note: there are some differences with Doctest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: this works somewhat differently than it does in Doctest.
```

By default properties are skipped. This is a **\--skip-properties** behaviour.
cabal-docspec has a simple mechanism to evaluate properties
enabled by **\--simple-properties**.

> For it to work *QuickCheck* package have to be in the install plan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For it to work, the *QuickCheck* package has to be in the install plan.
```

A simple property looks like this:

```haskell
-- |
-- prop> \xs -> sort xs == (sort . sort) (xs :: [Int])
```

> The lambda abstraction is not optional by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The lambda abstraction is required by default.
```

> cabal-docspec will automatically qualify over variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cabal-docspec will automatically quantify over variables
```

passed in with **\--property-variables** command line flag.

With **--property-variables xs** the following will work:

```haskell
-- |
-- prop> sort xs == (sort . sort) (xs :: [Int])
```

> Doctest uses a hack to find which variables are free in the the expression,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Doctest uses a hack to find which variables are free in the the expression.
```

> cabal-docspec approach is more deterministic, it doesn't try to infer anything.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cabal-docspec's approach is more deterministic, as it doesn't try to infer anything.
```

> Also contrary to *Doctest* cabal-docspec doesn't use **polyQuickCheck** trick.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, in contrast to *Doctest*, cabal-docspec doesn't use the **polyQuickCheck** trick.
```

Therefore some false properties may pass

```haskell
quickCheck $ \xs -> reverse xs === xs
+++ OK, passed 100 tests.
```

> That property passes because list element types defaults to **()**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That property passes because the list element type defaults to **()**.
```

> To avoid defaulting you may override defaults class resoltuion in **$setup** block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid defaulting you may override the default class resolution in a **$setup** block
```

```haskell
-- $setup
-- >>> default (Integer, Double)
```

> Then the above property will fail:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then the property above will fail:
```
